README.md, before:

# StripeSubHub

Simple Stripe subscription management with three payment states:
"unpaid," "paid," and "canceled."

Unpaid is the default state of a subscription.

A subscription is considered paid when the latest invoice is paid. The paid 
status is different from the subscription's active state. A subscription is 
active during a long-running payment processing. 

The cancelation is recorded with the subscription state canceled. A canceled 
subscription automatically closes all invoices.

A paid subscription can be canceled in the app.

## Data structure

```mermaid
erDiagram
    stripe_events {
        stripe_id string PK
        data jsonb "not null"
        state enum "pending|unhandled|processed|failed, not null, default 'pending'"
        processing_error string "not null, default ''"
        stripe_created_at timestamp "not null"
        created_at timestamp "not null"
    }

    stripe_subscriptions {
        stripe_id string PK
        subscription_state enum "unpaid|paid|canceled, not null, default 'unpaid'"
        first_invoice_id string
        lock_version integer "not null, default 0"
        created_at timestamp "not null"
        updated_at timestamp "not null"
    }
```

Stripe events drive the updates of the subscriptions and invoices. Event 
processing is restricted by the date the event was created. Only new events 
can update the resources (event created_at is compared with 
last_stripe_event_created_at).

## Setup

1.  Get the code.

        % git clone git@github.com:arkirchner/stripe_sub_hub.git

2.  Cope the env.sample to .env and add your Stripe endpoint secrets.

        % cp env.sample .env
        % vi .env

3.  Start or setup Rails.

        % bin/rails setup
        % bin/rails server

4.  Verify that the app is up and running.

        % open http://localhost:3000

## Stripe

The Stripe CLI is required for local testing. It is used to pip the webhook 
events to the local application.


1.  Connect the CLI to your Stripe test environment.

        % stripe login

2.  Forward subscription and invoice events to the local application. 

        % stripe listen --events customer.subscription.created,customer.subscription.updated,invoice.updated \
                        --forward-to localhost:3000/webhooks/stripe_events

3.  Create subscriptions on the Stripe UI .....

4.  Canceled subscriptions in the Rails console.

Commit message:

Update README.md to reflect refactings

README.md, after:

# StripeSubHub

Simple Stripe subscription management with three payment states: "unpaid," "paid," and "canceled."
- **Unpaid** is the default state of a subscription when created via Stripe.
- A subscription is considered **paid** when the first invoice is successfully paid.
- A paid subscription can be manually **canceled** in the app. A cancelation with a webhook event is unrestricted.

These states do not directly reflect the subscription's activity on Stripe during the processing phases. The focus is keeping the local record in sync and reflecting the state of unpaid, paid, and canceled.

## Data structure

```mermaid
erDiagram
    stripe_events {
        stripe_id string PK
        data jsonb "not null"
        state enum "pending|unhandled|processed|failed, not null, default 'pending'"
        processing_error string "not null, default ''"
        stripe_created_at timestamp "not null"
        created_at timestamp "not null"
    }

    stripe_subscriptions {
        stripe_id string PK
        subscription_state enum "unpaid|paid|canceled, not null, default 'unpaid'"
        first_invoice_id string
        lock_version integer "not null, default 0"
        created_at timestamp "not null"
        updated_at timestamp "not null"
    }
```

Stripe events drive subscription updates. Optimistic locking prevents updates and stale subscriptions. 

## Setup

1.  Get the code.

        % git clone git@github.com:arkirchner/stripe_sub_hub.git

2.  Cope the env.sample to .env and add your Stripe secrets.

        % cp env.sample .env
        % vi .env

3.  Start or setup Rails.

        % bin/rails setup
        % bin/rails server

4.  Verify that the app is up and running.

        % open http://localhost:3000

## Stripe

The Stripe CLI is required for local testing. It is used to pip the webhook 
events to the local application.


1.  Connect the CLI to your Stripe test environment.

        % stripe login

2.  Forward subscription and invoice events to the local application. 

        % stripe listen --events customer.subscription.created,customer.subscription.deleted,invoice.paid \
                        --forward-to localhost:3000/webhooks/stripe_events

3.  You can create subscriptions with the [Stripe UI](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/billing) or by manually triggering events.


##### Create an unpaid subscription.

        % stripe trigger customer.subscription.paused

##### Create a paid subscription.

        % stripe trigger customer.subscription.created

##### Create a canceled subscription.

        % stripe trigger customer.subscription.deleted

4.  Canceled subscriptions in the Rails console.
